## Change Log

All notable changes to this project are listed here.  

Change are listed in reverse chronological order (newest to oldest).  

<span class="changelog">

###### [ 1.0.34 ] - 2024/03/19

  * Updated underlying `spotifywebapiPython` package requirement to version 1.0.36.

###### [ 1.0.33 ] - 2024/03/12

  * Updated TTS force Google Translate support to use a volume level of zero, which causes the announcement to be played at the current volume level of the SoundTouch device.  Prior to the fix, the volume level was set at 30.

###### [ 1.0.32 ] - 2024/03/11

  * Added TTS force Google Translate support, which will force all TTS play media announcement requests to use Google Translate instead of the called service.  This functionality was provided because the SoundTouch device could not play the MP3 file generated by some TTS services due to bitrate limitations.  These includes `tts.speak`, `tts.cloud_say`, etc.

###### [ 1.0.31 ] - 2024/03/05

  * Added service `clear_source_nowplayingstatus` to clear the NowPlayingStatus for a given source.
  * Added service `update_source_nowplayingstatus` to allow updates to the NowPlayingStatus for a given source.
  * Updated underlying `bosesoundtouchapi` package requirement to version 1.0.56.

###### [ 1.0.30 ] - 2024/03/02

  * Updated underlying `spotifywebapiPython` package requirement to version 1.0.33.

###### [ 1.0.29 ] - 2024/02/27

  * Added Spotify music service support.  See the [SoundTouchPlus Wiki](https://github.com/thlucas1/homeassistantcomponent_soundtouchplus/wiki/Media-Library-Browser) for details on how to customize it.
  * Updated `browse_media.py` to add options for SpotifyPlus integration support.  Also reorganized the library map structure to easily support more music services in the future.

###### [ 1.0.28 ] - 2024/02/14

  * Updated `media_player.py` to properly restart websocket event listener when connectivity to a device is lost.  Prior to this fix, HA would need to be restarted in order to receive status notifications after a device lost connectivity.  It will now gracefully reconnect to the device within 30 seconds.
  * Updated `__init__.py` with proper support for options update processing.
  * Updated all modules with better tracing support.
  * Updated underlying `bosesoundtouchapi` package requirement to version 1.0.55.

###### [ 1.0.27 ] - 2024/02/14

  * Added browse media support that allows the user to play Pandora Stations, SoundTouch Presets, and SoundTouch Recently played items from the media browser.  See the [SoundTouchPlus Wiki](https://github.com/thlucas1/homeassistantcomponent_soundtouchplus/wiki/Media-Library-Browser) for details on how to customize it.
  * Added Spotify URI support to the stock `play_media` service.
  * Updated `media_player.py` with better tracing support.
  * Updated underlying `bosesoundtouchapi` package requirement to version 1.0.53.

###### [ 1.0.26 ] - 2023/12/29

  * Added "set_repeat()" support, which allows track play to be repeated (one, all, off).
  * Added "set_shuffle()" support, which allows track play to be shuffled (on, off).
  * Added "media_seek()" support, which allows playing track position to be changed, as well as display duration, position, and estimated time remaining values.
  * Updated underlying `bosesoundtouchapi` package requirement to version 1.0.51.

###### [ 1.0.25 ] - 2023/12/27

  * Added source title resolution to the `preset_list` and `recent_list` services, which includes a ui-friendly source title value for preset and recent list items.
  * Added service "Toggle Zone Member" - Toggles the given zone member in the master device's zone.  If the member exists in the zone then it is removed; if the member does not exist in the zone, then it is added.  A new zone is automatically created if necessary.
  * Updated underlying `bosesoundtouchapi` package requirement to version 1.0.48.  This also increases PoolManager sizes and fixes the "Connection pool is full, discarding connection ..." warning messages.

###### [ 1.0.24 ] - 2023/12/26

  * Added `include_empty_slots` argument to the `preset_list` service - True to include ALL preset slots (both empty and set); otherwise, False (default) to only include preset slots that have been set.
  * Updated underlying `bosesoundtouchapi` package requirement to version 1.0.44.

###### [ 1.0.23 ] - 2023/12/20

  * Added configuration options support - source_select processing, to only show sources that the user wants.
  * Added friendlier sound_mode_list display values for devices that support audiodspcontrols (ST-300, etc).
  * Updated code in __init__.py to log an error message (instead of an exception) when a SoundTouchClient instance could not be created.  This is usually caused by a temporary error (e.g. device unplugged, network connectivity, etc), in which case the user will need to manually reload the device when the temporary condition is cleared.  If it's a permanent error (e.g. ip address change), then the user needs to correct the configuration.
  * Updated underlying `bosesoundtouchapi` package requirement to version 1.0.43.

###### [ 1.0.22 ] - 2023/12/17

  *  Added service "Music Service Station List" - Gets a list of your stored stations from the specified music service (e.g. PANDORA, etc).

###### [ 1.0.21 ] - 2023/12/16

  *  Updated underlying `bosesoundtouchapi` package requirement to version 1.0.35.
  *  Updated configuration caching to utilize the `SoundTouchClient` module cache instead of local variables.  It's doing the same thing, without twice the overhead of memory storage.

###### [ 1.0.20 ] - 2023/12/13

  *  Added service "Reboot Device" - Reboots the operating system of the SoundTouch device.
  *  Updated Remote Keypress service to include key_state argument.  This allows presets to be stored (press) or selected for playing (release).
  *  Updated underlying `bosesoundtouchapi` package requirement to version 1.0.31.

###### [ 1.0.19 ] - 2023/12/04

  *  Updated underlying `bosesoundtouchapi` package requirement to version 1.0.22.
  *  Updated `sourcesUpdated` event processing to refresh the source list when the list has changed.

###### [ 1.0.18 ] - 2023/11/29

  *  Updated service "Play Content Item" to make most parameters optional, to support switching to LOCAL source if necessary.
  *  Updated README.md page to reference documentation in the GitHub Wiki pages.
  *  Changed github validation script to run once per month instead of once per day.

###### [ 1.0.17 ] - 2023/11/27

  *  Added service "Play Content Item" to allow media content from sources (e.g. TUNEIN, LOCAL_MUSIC, etc) to be played directly.

###### [ 1.0.16 ] - 2023/11/26

  *  Corrected high cpu rate condition in the underlying `SmartInspectPython` package api.  This was causing the integration to consume 50%+ of the cpu at all times.

###### [ 1.0.15 ] - 2023/11/20

  *  Updated `media_player.source_list` property to include sourceAccount as well as the source in the returned list (e.g. "PRODUCT:TV", etc).

###### [ 1.0.14 ] - 2023/11/15

  *  Added service "Adjust Audio Tone Levels" to allow bass and treble levels to be adjusted for devices that support AudioProductToneControls capability.
  *  Added new extra state attribute named "soundtouchplus_audio_bass_level" to indicate the current bass level.
  *  Added new extra state attribute named "soundtouchplus_audio_treble_level" to indicate the current treble level.
  *  Updated `select_source` method with the ability to select the last source (LASTSOURCE), as well as the last Soundtouch source (LASTSOUNDTOUCHSOURCE).

###### [ 1.0.13 ] - 2023/11/11

  *  Added "select_sound_mode()" support, which allows the device to enable AUDIO_MODE_DIALOG or AUDIO_MODE_NORMAL.  Note that only certain SoundTouch devices support the audiodspcontrols API (e.g. ST-300 does, ST-10 does not).

###### [ 1.0.12 ] - 2023/11/10

  *  Updated "select_source()" method processing to call the "SelectLocalSource()" method if LOCAL is specified for the source value; for some SoundTouch devices, this is the only way that the LOCAL source can be selected.

###### [ 1.0.11 ] - 2023/11/09

  *  Added a new extra state attribute to media_player named "soundtouchplus_source".  This will return a "source:sourceAccount" value if the sourceAccount value is populated; otherwise, it just returns the "source" value.

###### [ 1.0.10 ] - 2023/11/08

  *  Updated initialization method to load the _attr_source_list state property with the list of sources the device supports.  Also added listener to update the source list when it is changed in real-time.

###### [ 1.0.9 ] - 2023/11/06

  *  Allow user to disable websocket notifications if desired when device is added.  This will enable device polling every 10 seconds from Home Assistant UI for status updates.

###### [ 1.0.8 ] - 2023/11/05

  *  Updated config flow to allow configuration key name changes.  Updates were failing due to a configuration key name change.

###### [ 1.0.7 ] - 2023/11/05

  *  Updated config flow to allow entry for websocket port and ping interval values.

###### [ 1.0.6 ] - 2023/11/02

  *  Updated websocket connection event handler to log a debug message instead of an error when a socket connection is opened or closed.

###### [ 1.0.5 ] - 2023/11/01

  *  Updated code to handle device websocket connection errors (e.g. power loss, socket connection errors, etc).  This was causing devices to not respond once the websocket connection was re-established.

###### [ 1.0.4 ] - 2023/10/31

  *  Updated code to handle devices that do not support websocket notifications.  In this case, HA will poll the device every 10 seconds for status updates.

###### [ 1.0.3 ] - 2023/10/30

  *  Added "play_url" service support that allows better support for playing URL media content.

###### [ 1.0.2 ] - 2023/10/30

  *  Removed some HTML formatting from strings.json to be HASSFest validation compliant.

###### [ 1.0.1 ] - 2023/10/30

  *  Corrected a bug in the underlying bosesoundtouchapi which would cause delays in playing url's with no metadata present.

###### [ 1.0.0 ] - 2023/10/29

  *  Version 1 initial release.

</span>